---
layout: post
title: "Web 2.0(16)"
tags: programming history
---

It’s interesting to read Paul Graham’s [Web 2.0](http://www.paulgraham.com/web20.html) ten years later. Some thoughts:

- The websites Paul most praises—Google, Wikipedia, Reddit—are stronger than ever in 2016. 

- <q class="styled-quote">I’ve noticed for a while that the stuff I read on individual people’s sites is as good as or better than the stuff I read in newspapers and magazines. And now I have independent evidence: the top links on Reddit are generally links to individual people’s sites rather than to magazine articles or news stories.</q><br>
My gut and today’s top stories on Reddit tell me that this is no longer the case. :(

- <q class="styled-quote">Craigslist has largely destroyed the classified ad sites of the 90s, and OkCupid looks likely to do the same to the previous generation of dating sites.</q><br>
I don’t really know anything about online dating sites, but I know OkCupid is still one of the most popular.

- <q class="styled-quote">I wouldn’t be surprised if ten years from now eBay had been supplanted by an ad-supported freeBay (or, more likely, gBay).</q><br>
Nope. eBay has fewer and fewer auctions, and more and more people just sell directly, some on eBay and some on competitors like Amazon.

- <q class="styled-quote">The ultimate target is Microsoft. What a bang that balloon is going to make when someone pops it by offering a free web-based alternative to MS Office. Who will? Google? They seem to be taking their time. I suspect the pin will be wielded by a couple of 20 year old hackers who are too naïve to be intimidated by the idea. (How hard can it be?)</q><br>
I am surprised this hasn’t happened. Google of course does have the free web-based Google Docs, but they’re still only trying to replace Microsoft Office. And Microsoft’s Office 365 (basically Microsoft’s Google Docs alternative) is doing fine.